Hello everyone.
19178564493: Hey john Islam Halen i'm i'm only going to be able to join by phone.
19178564493: Okay.
19178564493: Not a problem.
19178564493: Hi, Janice, Joe.
19178564493: Hey, Joe.
Mike Friesenegger: John spike prisoner.
John Mertic: Hey Mike, how's it going
Mike Friesenegger: It's going well.
Mike Friesenegger: How are you
Mike Friesenegger: Good.
John Mertic: See Dan Horak in the background as well.
Dan Horak: HELLO JOHN
John Mertic: Let's give it a couple minutes and see who all is able to join today.
John Mertic: Apologize that there's a little bit of noise in the background I'm
John Mertic: I
John Mertic: Was supposed to attend an event to a conference here today, but I'm attending it remotely. So they're doing it virtually in the background. I'm trying to turn the audio down but also make sure I'm not missing anything too.
John Mertic: Much so I apologize for that.
John Mertic: Give it a couple of minutes here. I don't know.
John Mertic: What the attendance will look like today.
John Mertic: At a few other people pop in here, try to
John Mertic: Capture names a CJ Devlin.
John Mertic: And I see Ingo are you both doing
Ingo Adlung: Good. Great.
John Mertic: Hopefully, yeah.
Ingo Adlung: Mobile bites out of is doing good.
Ingo Adlung: Know cool not here yet but
John Mertic: I definitely hunker down it's
John Mertic: Getting serious here.
Ingo Adlung: Ya know, if I was in Italy, I would not be any any any worse because as relaxed as Ollie express my sentiment.
John Mertic: They see Rick trough.
John Mertic: Popping in here, Rick.
Rick Troth: He's, he's here. He's gone. He's here again.
John Mertic: Sometimes that's how it goes.
John Mertic: All right, well, we're about five after the hour. It sounds like it's just going to be kind of it updates meeting today is we don't have any the voting members in attendance.
John Mertic: Agenda, I think we've pretty straight forward. I can drop in the chat, just for everybody's info. It's also online in the GitHub repo.
John Mertic: We can just run through some project updates on where various one stand. I know. And then just look into some of the projects that
John Mertic: We've heard some rattling around and just provide any update that we might have. Anything else anybody wants to touch on today.
Joe Devlin: Will
Joe Devlin: Can you hear me to Joe
Joe Devlin: Yes. Yeah, I walked away with a lot of sort of emphasis impressions from
Joe Devlin: Share will will be on today's
Joe Devlin: Agenda or no. As a matter of fact.
John Mertic: We are kicking it right off with it. So we're just doing around a full project updates so
John Mertic: If anybody else has anything else might otherwise, let's just roll a damn business.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, I'll see if I can get the conversation going. I think we should kill the project.
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: Well, I think that IBM has
Joe Devlin: Claimed all the space and put all the investment in time and to doing all the gold now at of the IBM Toronto lab and there really isn't any. I don't even know you know the tents up, but where's the party I you know
Joe Devlin: Anybody else comment on this Jovi with us. I'm just saying. It's like, I can't, I can't really see a reason to continue it under, under the current state of affairs. It just, there's so many things that everyone who's involved with open software a mainframe has to do that. Is it
Joe Devlin: You know what goals can be pursued under it.
Joe Bostian: Okay, so
Joe Devlin: Are there.
So,
Joe Bostian: Is it that you think that it's not focused enough or that there's
Joe Devlin: No, there's just nothing. Are there. Is there an actual mission and the more that is an open mission, rather than a mission that IBM Toronto.
Joe Devlin: Language lab is doing and may do a very, very good job of but that's not you know that's not an emphasis, per se. That's just Toronto lab doing what they get paid for but
Joe Devlin: But, but
Joe Bostian: Okay, so
Joe Bostian: So that's for the Python interpreter right uh there's there's
Joe Devlin: Just I mean they've claimed the space for seeing they they want to do their own implementation of Python. They want to do a client yellow VM port. They want to do their own go sort of where
Joe Devlin: I'm stating a somewhat more extreme position, Joseph and then exactly what I think. But I have to put it out there to make quality discussion is like, you know,
Joe Devlin: You can. I mean, anyone can project manage anything and it doesn't even have to be real. So are we on the verge of project managing something that's not a time
Joe Bostian: Okay.
Joe Bostian: Um, okay. So there's originally a rocket was going to use this as a staging area to upstream all of the changes to all of the packages that were based on the Python interpreter and certainly I think that's still a very viable.
Joe Bostian: You know, use of the project itself. And then of course we have all of the container based things that we're pushing out there now as well.
Joe Devlin: Is it is it does anyone. I mean there isn't a separate effort going at IBM. I thought there was some Project Office that was devoted towards getting as many Docker images already have as many thing is, or is that an ambit a stated goal that has no one else already on that runway.
Joe Bostian: I'm not sure I'm following
Joe Devlin: Does another person with more funding and more people in IBM run an effort to make all those Docker images available and that the amber test team and project is doing something
Joe Devlin: Hat. Um, I mean, this group still doesn't have a mainframe. Okay, roughly outside of people have them within their daily life jobs. And so the notion of doing a lot of porting and compiling testing of things.
Joe Devlin: Where they don't have a lab. And if someone else that IBM is doing this, it seems like good effort after that.
Joe Bostian: So there's
Joe Bostian: there's currently no effort going on that's going to take the
Joe Bostian: Initiative over to publish a bunch of images that that aren't already part of regular you know product plans. In other words, there's no
Joe Bostian: There's nobody here with the mission inside of IBM to go off and say create a Docker hub with all of the CEOs images in it that that you know can be
Joe Bostian: Published right i mean that that we're trying to use the Linux containers repo for out there is to show people how to do it for themselves. And I think that's a very valid use of of the project, right.
Joe Devlin: So, okay. Well, I suppose, we were to bounce that off of someone who consider themselves an architect and strategist of that area at IBM like you have to take. I don't take Mark vaguely. Does he know about this project and expect it to do something or do they have something else go
Joe Bostian: He knows about this project, but I don't think he has any expectations of any kind of
Joe Bostian: You know results from this group that that he's making any plans on
Joe Devlin: Okay, I'm just laying out these concerns here because it's, you know, the
Joe Devlin: A you know we we have back to you almost two years now. We're trying to do these different or empty projects and it seems like
Joe Devlin: Even for theoretically funded like rockets language ports or
Joe Devlin: Other stuff that just
Ingo Adlung: Yeah, so where's the army.
Joe Devlin: Does anyone else have an opinion, hear me to anyone. I mean, I know that optimism is always good. Well,
Okay.
Ingo Adlung: So, so this is saying go, I don't know that I have a particular optimism. I don't have any any any any any negative anything negative to say here either.
Ingo Adlung: But john I think it would be fair to take that to Meredith stall and and asked her to to to to decipher
Ingo Adlung: What the what the continued interest on that particular one is was an IBM that as well, specifically to the US team and and then go from there. And certainly we can we can bring in all of all of the concerns that were expressed here.
John Mertic: Hey,
14165293019: All right, I totally
14165293019: I may, I may have missed the beginning part of the core part of the discussion. I heard somebody talking about whether there's an IBM effort right publishing Docker images. It was just, it was about the emphasis project.
14165293019: As part of to amp t and you that it is specifically specifically focused
14165293019: Around to see us ecosystem that space.
14165293019: Yeah, can I ask sort of a basic question. Do we expect the images in the same in the same way as the Linux container images.
14165293019: Yes, they use the same Docker files in the same infrastructure.
14165293019: And so
14165293019: So what's out there now is a bunch of rest. How Tos and you know advice and things like that.
14165293019: Right. So yeah, I just want to share some of the work we do on the Linux side and maybe we can discuss how we can leverage it
14165293019: So right now we have the IBM Linux ecosystem T right publishing Docker files.
14165293019: So we don't build Docker images ourselves, but we do leverage an open source tool that is being used by a university I think Oregon or something.
14165293019: Or you. I see. I forgot. So they actually have didn't using that tool right click on a button on all the packages that have you
14165293019: toward it and have Docker files and then to automatically build Docker images and publish the images in Docker Hub and wondering whether there's anything we can do there. Right and leverage this tool for the mechanics to get more images publishing
Joe Bostian: So,
Joe Bostian: So we can certainly explore working together on that. But I mean, to speak to the infrastructure question on you know that you brought up, Joe, I don't know.
Joe Bostian: We don't have a. We don't have a mainframe to work on, you know, right now, but I didn't think that was under the domain of amateurs to have to line up those kinds of resources. I thought those were things that the
Joe Bostian: The larger own P was trying to assemble so that we can eventually someday make use of those kinds of things. And, you know, you know,
Joe Devlin: I'm not saying that they don't have separate
Joe Devlin: You know, those aren't somewhat separate problems. But one problem does affect the other in that
Joe Devlin: Who is not in IBM or rocket would do anything.
Joe Devlin: towards those goals. And if you build a docker image. You've probably
Joe Devlin: Been loaded and tested a little bit
Joe Bostian: What isn't that a bigger own T question. I mean,
Joe Devlin: I know, but I'm just saying. But I'm putting it out there to say, you know, well, why do we put projects under project management. If they can't literally be
Joe Devlin: Staffed and implemented.
Joe Devlin: I'm done, bringing back impressions from share that there's a lot of happy chat and a lot of marketing stuff going on about open source, but the
Joe Devlin: branding of things as open source versus the reality of actually having a community are at a great tension right now. And, you know, again, if people think I'm an asshole and just have to shut up for the rest of the meeting. I can also do that I'm trained and but you know
Joe Bostian: Are there any barriers.
Rick Troth: Preventing. Are you saying they train you to be an asshole.
Joe Devlin: Well, both both
Joe Devlin: Shut up afterwards.
Joe Devlin: I
Joe Devlin: Again, I wonder if this is a dead horse all stop beating and I just think that it feeling like a treadmill to me in that we stand roughly at the same place.
Joe Devlin: Because the situation is changing. And it's even drifting a bit towards having a smaller
Joe Devlin: You know scope and also and also say that some extent you know if
Joe Devlin: IBM
Joe Devlin: IBM wants to have all the stuff running on Z my punch line here. Why don't they
Joe Devlin: Grants free use of a Dallas test system.
Joe Devlin: Do the Ott so
Joe Devlin: Just like I am, but those can
Joe Devlin: Actually have a reality.
Joe Devlin: You specifically Antoine
Rick Troth: You specifically means EOS you said z.
Rick Troth: When you say
Joe Devlin: Z i mean it.
Rick Troth: Could be Z Linux. Yeah.
Rick Troth: Diamond. VIOLA. Right, right.
Joe Devlin: They can brand it make a grant a test system that could run a VC dx and have a full port on test environment available.
Joe Devlin: IBM can more at the snap of the fingers than perhaps the Virginia Commonwealth University makes this a reality and that they have the iron that is sitting in you know Capella Texas and
Joe Devlin: You know, if it's to IBM is benefit to have all of these languages and ports and packages ready
You know,
Joe Devlin: I would summon
Joe Devlin: Some more
Joe Devlin: Or funded
Rick Troth: Some ports are easy, turn the crank let the machine do the work. There is a problem when these things get. I mean, there's always some amount of funding required I run into this at my employer, there are certain platform ports that I believe we should have that we don't have and
Rick Troth: Our lab actually has the platform to do it, but somebody said, oh, but we can't justify, you know, because there might be a cure a regression cycle implied, even if not truly required
Rick Troth: And things like this. Someone should turn the crank.
Rick Troth: When CEOs is involved the Dallas systems will charge. So there is a certain amount of
Rick Troth: funding that is required.
Rick Troth: I think the Dallas Linux systems are a little bit more accommodating in terms of, oh you burn some CPU. Well, we don't
Rick Troth: I didn't buy you own it CEOs.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, I priced it out. And I know that the
Rick Troth: System.
Joe Devlin: The minimum charge per month $550 the maximum charge is 12,000 a month. If you really just like run flat out and constantly hammering the CPUs and disks and so
Joe Devlin: There's some. There are some number between you know 9000 or $1,000 on 140 $4,000 a year some number virtual dollars that would need to be spent does IBM wants to donate some of those virtual dollars to help being that that the project become a success. The
Joe Devlin: More open were ready for it.
Rick Troth: Yeah, we need somebody to somebody with the budgeting authority to step up. I mean $500 is a rounding error in most budgets of any significance.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, so, so it seems like compared to all the suffering, we're going through and VCU and the start and stuff that it would have been
Joe Devlin: Interesting to pursue that sounds approachable and that he would seem like with the proper whining and supplication that maybe IBM. Could that coffee and load them done. The 12,000 max.
John Mertic: So,
Rick Troth: Take it up to
Rick Troth: Market Zani
Rick Troth: He's been accommodating before I don't know how many times we can go to that. Well, but
Rick Troth: But if somebody can reach out to mark.
John Mertic: Yeah, I mean, maybe one of the things that might be helpful.
John Mertic: And it sounds like there's people that know contacts that have made this happen before so
John Mertic: What I'm summarizing this there's there's two questions coming out of
John Mertic: Here, there's one of is there a potential conflict.
John Mertic: In the
John Mertic: aims and goals of the project.
John Mertic: In regards to other initiatives that might be already happening.
John Mertic: In a single vendor sense you know essentially that those activities.
John Mertic: Run conflict to the goals of another project to the employees projects I here. So, that is one line and then the other is, um, are some of the various projects that are hosted here.
John Mertic: In a way, setup for not appropriately set up for success because of the complexities of getting as the system is that
John Mertic: Kind of covered the two lines of discussion pretty well or am I missing nuances.
Joe Devlin: That that's pretty much it. But I want to go front loaded on that because you know sort of seeing where I thought, though he was going to go when it was put into
Joe Devlin: You know, an open source project and where it ended up right now. You know, just sort of my experiences informing me that I would want to go and get her get on the right track and clear the right runways early rather than
Joe Devlin: You know, just assume that things will happen. Yep.
John Mertic: No, I think, I think those are all very fair points, um,
John Mertic: So it sounds like. And maybe Ingo. I don't know. You know, if you can help with this, if this is something maybe we should get a three way call and get Meredith involved in
Ingo Adlung: Both
Ingo Adlung: I think we should involve
John Mertic: Marriages okay
John Mertic: Um, but at least it sounds like capturing it.
John Mertic: Yeah, it's, it's, you know, is there conflicts between with the end of these projects is trying to accomplish and other, it seems like it's very pointed towards IBM internal efforts.
John Mertic: Is in a guest Joe Devlin, a point to you. Do you see that there's other organizations that have internal efforts that are conflicting with this or do you think it's
John Mertic: It's predominantly. And I think if the
Joe Devlin: If the scope of amateur says no.
Joe Devlin: Create a docker images and keep Anaconda packages and stuff, you know, rolling. If that becomes the dual primary focuses make sure that everyone who knows about it knows that.
Joe Devlin: It's that and not some of the other things that were mentioned, that's just a matter of making sure that the mission goals are well stated, no problem with that though they're both good mentioned. Yeah, I guess.
Joe Devlin: Yeah.
Ingo Adlung: I guess it's a fair observation that that's that's that that there could be quite some redundancy coming into it was the was the redhead acquisition, where were previously the mainframe was by by the very definition.
Joe Devlin: Of left out and
Ingo Adlung: And we see things changing. We also see that that I'll be at from its cloud pack strategy perspective is pulling in more open source project. So to the extent that
Ingo Adlung: It then becomes just quote unquote just integrated the question of, well, here's a, here's a reasonably
Ingo Adlung: comprehensive set of tools that have that that can be accessed free of charge. And there's the commercial version to it, and perhaps IBM need to think better than quote unquote misusing do MP for that. But it's a fair discussion to that first marriages.
Okay.
John Mertic: Um, and I guess. Yes, I have a I'm writing these down in the Minutes mostly just so I can remember the questions specifically to tee up
John Mertic: You know, one is the does named as current scope conflict with internal IBM existing and emerging efforts and then to lack of the infrastructure holding back
John Mertic: Exists, you know,
John Mertic: existing and potential MP projects.
John Mertic: Is that a fair way to state all those
Joe Bostian: Great. Yep.
John Mertic: Okay, cool. And I don't mean to
John Mertic: You know curtail the discussion here I have a feeling we could probably go on for hours on this and
Joe Devlin: Know that was it. That was you got to it you summarized it and I want to push the question up the line to IBM. Let's go to the next up, sweet.
John Mertic: All right, thank you so much good discussion. Everyone
John Mertic: Let's dig in moving at the line and maybe we can tackle these together, Adam plugins and terse decompress I know Ingo one of the action items.
John Mertic: That you had taken a couple of meetings ago was to check in with both of those project leads and just try to get a sense of those projects is there up for renewal incubation. Is there any updates on that.
Ingo Adlung: I need to apologize. I had been I had been on the road for weeks in a row. And so a couple of things fell through the cracks and those are part of it, so my apologies, my very sincere ones, but
Ingo Adlung: So, I still have to to
John Mertic: Just add it as a acronym for next time. No worries there. Um, I guess, spitting back around here fail on. I think we have make freeze and eager on the line.
John Mertic: Mike, you're you. You might be on mute.
Mike Friesenegger: Yes, I'm on mute. Sorry about that. Hear me now.
John Mertic: Yep.
Mike Friesenegger: Okay, good. So we have our last meeting and and things are progressing, albeit slowly.
Mike Friesenegger: Um, you know, the, so the the the big, the big item is the CIC D infrastructure and trying to piggyback off of what the Zoe project has done.
Mike Friesenegger: And that continues to move forward slowly but surely at the same time we are focusing on how developers can get access to an environment so that they can actually develop, test things
Mike Friesenegger: And and and so that's being worked on with a number of
Mike Friesenegger: partners that have Z resources that are willing to share some of those resources and then and then finally we have one
Mike Friesenegger: A presentation at our next meeting, which will be next week where I hope that will actually see a an external contribution to the project IBM has done a lot of contributions to the project up to this point.
Mike Friesenegger: But that we have
Mike Friesenegger: A group that has been working on on external on changes and they're going to review their contributions, with the with the group during next meeting.
Mike Friesenegger: Sorry, that wasn't very verbose. My apologies.
John Mertic: No, that's, that's great. And I think you're all next meeting. It's not. Well, it's actually next Thursday.
John Mertic: At 430 Eastern right
Mike Friesenegger: Correct, yes.
John Mertic: Okay, well that's that's that's great to hear. That's great to hear. Um,
John Mertic: Any, any questions from anyone on that.
19178564493: Just so this is Latin
19178564493: listening in and all this stuff. We have a mainframe with CEOs that anybody can have access to. Besides the Linux VM environment that we're also giving access to
19178564493: Mike and a fail on team to so and i also still working with VCU. They're getting closer and closer to getting their own the same
19178564493: Which will be available for what we all want to do on the outside world, but
19178564493: Our machine does this apply as a just a sandbox, so we don't care what happens in things go down or anything like that. We just bring it back up. And I go, if, if that ever really other happens just so everybody knows. Okay.
Rick Troth: My hero, but
Joe Devlin: And what is the Viacom, what do you mean by comp plan.
19178564493: Yeah, it's, it, it's in our office, we, we just moved it from our Penn plaza office out to our headquarters on Long Island and Farmingdale but it's, you know, opened up you know give you, everybody. Anybody access that you need it. And, you know,
19178564493: It works out pretty nice for when people need something that doesn't want to deal with rules or regulations that drive everybody nuts because we do what we like.
Joe Devlin: Okay. I mean, I
Joe Devlin: I feel ignorant that I didn't know that such a thing exists, and I don't even know how many R amp D project have
Joe Devlin: You know, put a line of code there. Yeah.
Mike Friesenegger: So, uh, yeah.
19178564493: Sorry about that. I should have let everybody know
19178564493: When the when we were all together one time or another. But Mike, you were gonna say something. I'm sorry to interrupt you. Yeah.
Mike Friesenegger: No, no, it's okay. So I didn't want to name names. So that's why I was very
Mike Friesenegger: standoffish when it came to who
Mike Friesenegger: Are the partners, we're
Mike Friesenegger: Working with but yeah by climate.
Joe Devlin: Is absolutely
Mike Friesenegger: A great while we haven't laid down any
Mike Friesenegger: Code, yet we are actually in conversations with
19178564493: Their systems programmer.
Mike Friesenegger: To get a second levels, the VM environment.
Mike Friesenegger: Configuration so
Mike Friesenegger: We're working out the
Mike Friesenegger: Details on a second level CDN seven one environment.
Mike Friesenegger: That a developer could
Mike Friesenegger: Have provisioned
Mike Friesenegger: And then they could actually test out the fail own code test out their changes in the field long code and things like that. So that's
Mike Friesenegger: where we're at in the process.
19178564493: And guys, you can use our name in vain anytime you want. We're all in this together.
19178564493: Thanks.
John Mertic: As a project definitely appreciate a lot of our partners stepping up and
John Mertic: Willing to offer space. I know Maris has offered space.
John Mertic: For some projects.
John Mertic: Especially for our mentees
John Mertic: I think even velocity in the past is offered space. So we've seen a lot of that.
John Mertic: Yeah, I think, I think the big question that I've
John Mertic: That I think is probably on folks is nice is more run the, you know,
John Mertic: Making sure we have sustainable.
John Mertic: Space, because that's
John Mertic: That's why we have these things.
John Mertic: Come together but you got to start somewhere. So
John Mertic: This is least
John Mertic: It's a great thing to Viacom stepping up and doing
John Mertic: Um, anything else unfailing from anybody.
John Mertic: All right, for polycephalum Jerry Edgington was unable to join today. He did send me a note via email. He has also been working with a Lennon. The team at Viacom
19178564493: Infinity AND VINNY AND
John Mertic: Others to get his us build
John Mertic: Environment setup, they're going to be kind of a similar situation.
John Mertic: To fail long where there's going to be a distributed part that the LF release engineering team manages and then this which is sort of more of a community manager piece.
John Mertic: So I think that's moving along. And he also wanted to share that there. They also have bi weekly meetings every week. There's our Mondays their next one is the 16th.
John Mertic: At
John Mertic: I believe 2pm
John Mertic: Eastern time, and I'll put in the the notes the link to the meeting agenda.
John Mertic: And I know he's mentioned those meetings have been a little bit sparsely attended, but we really good if you have folks that are sort of interested in it as CEOs and Jenkins to come check out
John Mertic: I think he's really passionate about this.
John Mertic: And really looking to drive some more interest.
John Mertic: Any questions there.
John Mertic: All right, I'm moving down zero I think here and I see you in the background.
hiren: I was, I was on mute. Sorry.
John Mertic: No, no worries.
hiren: Yeah. So regarding Zorro we are having this bi weekly
hiren: Sitting committee meeting. I'm partial via not getting any additional participation from community so
hiren: At shared though we had some good presentation and discussion regarding
hiren: The USA map and workflows. It is
hiren: As per the SIP share report is getting traction, but I don't have enough participant yet in zero community.
hiren: And and I have been discussing with john
hiren: And Vinny about how we can
hiren: Affect additional participants participants in this community.
John Mertic: Any, any thoughts from folks. I mean, I think we've shared just some ground level things just from what I've seen across open source projects, you know,
John Mertic: You know, such as just sort of, you know, mentioning, you know, as you're doing a part of talks that are related.
John Mertic: You know, making sure that we're getting meeting notes and and
John Mertic: Notices out ahead of time so people just
John Mertic: Sort of, you know, see what's what's you know on the agenda, but I think
John Mertic: You really here. It's a pertinent of just sort of reaching the right audience and I don't
Know,
John Mertic: For folks. And this is really focused on
John Mertic: Users
John Mertic: Of the Z some f technology.
John Mertic: I don't know if within some of your
John Mertic: Networks. If there's folks that you think just eat connected to the script that may not be aware of.
It.
John Mertic: Just kind of open the floor to thoughts.
19178564493: That's, that's this is lunch. That is the challenge. How do you reach the do SMS audience. And how do you find out who they are. Is is actually
19178564493: Even more insightful question because do SMS is part of the iOS. So, you know, yeah, everybody. So one run Z. How do you, is there a specific
19178564493: Product number that IBM could do a search and and and it shows who's using it that way.
hiren: Now we start off
hiren: The US itself.
hiren: It's not a separate product. So, it will be difficult.
hiren: We discussed with
hiren: Our customers about the possibility
Of
hiren: Having some kind of
hiren: Use this collection in USA map there are
hiren: Concerns from the customer about allowing IBM to collect some of the data.
hiren: See when that is currently on hold.
hiren: But that would have helped us to understand who is using what functional zero SMS, right. So right now we don't have any
hiren: Clear inside when we talk to people, we learn that yes they are using this part of zero SMS, for example, network configuration or other part software management, for example.
hiren: But you
hiren: Know incoming data or are are somewhere we can go and build a list of all the customers who are using the USA, man.
hiren: So whenever we discuss at some conference. When you are, are people looking for us MF education I bring up
hiren: Zoho
hiren: And request participation from them.
19178564493: Start building workflows and
hiren: Collectively we can help of
hiren: IBM, as well as other customers who have
hiren: Participated ease or they can also provide health but right now it's on the IBM and one customer
hiren: Has done some work with us. Mr.
Bob
19178564493: From Zoho community perspective.
hiren: There may be many customer who have built the workflows.
hiren: But they are not have have not joined the community.
Yet
19178564493: What, what kind of response. Did you get it share
hiren: I was not direct share. But that gives us a map presentation. People who are present in the USA map, they have seen good responsible turn around.
19178564493: And interesting
hiren: USA math as. All right.
hiren: They understand that it is a core component of us, and there is more functions coming in US American kind of getting
19178564493: To this
hiren: Page where it will
hiren: Come, it will become mandatory to run the USA map.
hiren: If they wanted to example.
hiren: deploys EC.
19178564493: Acts
hiren: As a container extension on a zero as they need
hiren: To me to zero SMS workflow.
hiren: So at least be are explaining them why this critical
hiren: Our product.
hiren: Installation strategy is around
hiren: here somewhere. It's just a matter of time that
19178564493: People will wake up.
hiren: And say, oh, yeah, we need to have
configured in our environment.
Right, right.
19178564493: Interesting challenge I, you know, remember how hard it was to get people to start using zero SMS periods. Now we do I do hear a lot of people doing
19178564493: using SMS. Now we just got to get those that are using it to volunteer to be part of our Zorro group here somehow, some way
19178564493: And I think that that's that that's that's what we're dealing with. But it's going to happen. It's just happening. We want to make it happen sooner rather than later. So
19178564493: We'll keep
19178564493: At these and now with all these logged on
19178564493: Conferences being cancelled, you know, makes it even harder I maybe
19178564493: Maybe we can offer maybe what IBM can do. Here's an idea. Maybe what IBM to do is offer
19178564493: A
19178564493: WebEx.
19178564493: Your WebEx to
19178564493: Call clients about this you know how IBM makes announcements about web access to the client base and
19178564493: And have them come and listen to this. I think that might be
19178564493: Something we can do you and we can do it through by common 30 WebEx lunch and learns that we conduct once a month to as a as a topic, perhaps
hiren: Your
hiren: specific topic will
19178564493: Be
hiren: Centered on
hiren: What FROZEN IS NOT NOT WHAT I DO SO MAD BECAUSE THAT HAS BEEN DONE.
hiren: Maybe a couple of times just
hiren: Focused on workflows its benefit.
hiren: How you can create one.
hiren: If you don't have any experience with the workflow. So, we can have that kind of WebEx.
hiren: For my need to work at my company.
19178564493: To
hiren: To set such
A backs.
19178564493: Me.
19178564493: I'm the one who led when similar to me. Yeah, okay.
hiren: So maybe what you could do a form it do
19178564493: Do me a favor and write a description of what the presentation would be about and a bio of the speaker that would be presenting and then we can pick a date.
19178564493: Maybe next month to
19178564493: Conduct
19178564493: And and write it in such a way that it's enticing people, you know, that would be
19178564493: Of interest, you know, take your time and maybe we can go back and forth together through emails and wordsmith it and then agree on it and get it out the door and an invitation. Okay.
hiren: Great, thank you.
19178564493: Thank you for your for
John Mertic: Your. Thank you. Thank you. Let
19178564493: Us keep us updated on that because it's something we can also promote
John Mertic: Out through our channels.
19178564493: Really easily as well. Oh, yeah.
19178564493: Yep, yep. I mean, I know you have a customer. I know you have a big customer
John Mertic: List, you're going to hit with that which
John Mertic: So it probably maybe makes more sense with
John Mertic: Toronto Viacom context.
John Mertic: But yeah, certainly we can we can promote out their channels as well. And yeah hopefully
John Mertic: Here in that couldn't kind of drive a little back interest into the this particular project and
19178564493: kind of kick things off. Yep.
John Mertic: Cool.
John Mertic: Well, we are solving the world's problems today I'm
John Mertic: Only internally we didn't get the
John Mertic: big elephant in the room solved but
John Mertic: As we can't knock them all allowed
John Mertic: I'm taking a head here on projects at. I know we don't really have any updates on
John Mertic: The mentorship.
John Mertic: We did close the mentorship applications.
John Mertic: Right before the end of March, the last day of February.
John Mertic: I think you all might have probably saw the newsletter.
John Mertic: email that I sent out and had a nice chart in there that illustrated. They're really
John Mertic: Really nice growth that we've seen. And I would say
John Mertic: fairly linear growth. We're seeing
John Mertic: On both applications and applicants. So I think we had
John Mertic: somewhere north of
John Mertic: 100 and almost 160 applications and a little bit more than 100 applicants.
John Mertic: Which is fantastic. I mean that's we're really showing I think somewhere in that like 30% growth, we're averaging sort of year over year.
John Mertic: So that's really exciting.
John Mertic: I mean, I think that's exactly
John Mertic: Where I think we're all hoping we
19178564493: We can be. And so we're really
John Mertic: Maximizing that channel really well.
John Mertic: We're also at the same time. And this has actually been a really interesting happenstance through that newsletter is what were some of our past mentees were on it and we're having some of them reach out
John Mertic: And give sort of updates of where they're at today. And so I think may and I've
John Mertic: Been to spend a little time and get maybe an idea of how we can do, you know, where are they now.
John Mertic: Series here.
John Mertic: Just to really
John Mertic: Help showcase with the value of this program has been
John Mertic: Now, five years later.
John Mertic: So I think that's good. I hadn't heard from Bob today but
John Mertic: I think the next big step there is that everyone's working on
Determining
John Mertic: You know, assessing all the mentees and I think there's a meeting here next week, or maybe the week after to review all of the application or to review where that sits and
19178564493: Make some final selections.
John Mertic: So overall,
John Mertic: All good stuff. Any questions on that.
19178564493: Excellent.
John Mertic: Um, and the last but certainly not least project to touch on on the Zoe front. I don't know if there's any from the Zoe community on the line.
John Mertic: I can just kind of provide a little bit of update. They just did a 1.9 release, which is by name, their LTS release, although I think they're also in the same time still finalizing pieces of their LTS policy.
John Mertic: So that is a little bit inflate and once that lines along with updates for the conformance for her from 2020 they're looking to do more of a public announcement about both of those. It was aim for next week, although I think it might be pushed out a couple weeks is there.
19178564493: Still
John Mertic: Hammering stuff out. So
John Mertic: Things moving well ahead.
19178564493: On that friend.
John Mertic: Any questions or anything else.
19178564493: Anybody
John Mertic: Wants to add
John Mertic: All right, and then looking at projects that have potentially still out there. Um, their heads has been picked up discussion on the academic learning
John Mertic: Materials project from a couple of different angles. I think there's been interest from the academia.
John Mertic: Folks I think Bob. Bob Burg is expressed an opinion of trying to get some of the academic folks together to collaborate on materials.
And then
John Mertic: At the same time there's been some of the learning
John Mertic: Training folks from both ca or from
John Mertic: Excuse me Broadcom and IBM
John Mertic: That are converging also on a similar project so
John Mertic: More to come on that front the hyper ledger fabric for S3 90 there's there's work from Alex Camden, I think he's just sort of assessing what's needed, and then I'm making some connections in the background with
John Mertic: The LF folks that are working with the hyper ledger fabric project to just sort of see how to make all these connections work. So that is still kicking along here.
19178564493: There might be a proposal coming here by the next
John Mertic: Meeting and another one.
John Mertic: Is the open source project discovery for S3 90 x. And I guess that's brought across SUSE Linux.
John Mertic: And and whatnot. So this is basically
John Mertic: tooling to
John Mertic: Make it easier so that you could say, hey, does this particular open source project work on z and
John Mertic: It can
John Mertic: Have various different degrees of what work means is it
John Mertic: Compiled is the upstream support it.
John Mertic: Is it supported by a vendor is it optimized for these sort of hitting all those questions.
John Mertic: There's some initial source code that has been maintained by the Linux on Z team.
John Mertic: That looks like it's the basis for that tool. And I think right now. Elizabeth Joseph has been sort of leading that effort.
John Mertic: To figure out
John Mertic: How to bring that code in is the basis, but then also how to organize the team.
John Mertic: And there's been various offers that have came around, I know from
John Mertic: Various IBM business units because this very top of mine.
John Mertic: And I'm certain others as well.
David Edelsohn: I mean, this is for the tool or this is to
David Edelsohn: Port more the software.
John Mertic: This is for the tool for the discovery tool. So I don't know, David, if you're familiar with the PDS
John Mertic: tool that's out there.
David Edelsohn: No prob not
David Edelsohn: Every release that the acronym doesn't mean anything. It just went
David Edelsohn: And this is again Linux one or this is Linux on z z iOS.
John Mertic: I think the idea is to have it being brought across any of the operating systems right now the tooling is very specific to Linux on z, because it's designed to bring in district data. But the idea is that this should be a one stop shop across anything see
David Edelsohn: Okay. I mean, I'll just say now since I mean I've been john you know I'm so so humble and I mean, and they don't
David Edelsohn: You know, not not not directed a whole
David Edelsohn: No, no, this is this person IBM to Joseph, but I will say that this is a terrible idea. I mean, this is exactly what I'm trying to advocate against in IBM
David Edelsohn: Because I think it's a really horrible message in the sense that I think the message. My as my personal view. I'm not speaking for, you know, any organization or any, you know, part of IBM that
David Edelsohn: The goal should be never to say yes, but it shouldn't be the goal shouldn't be to have a list of what does or doesn't work. The goal should be at all just works.
David Edelsohn: They may be. It could be more optimizing the this it but you know I really think it's a bad message for z in general to it's not Linux and Linux on z, it's not you know this package doesn't work. And that package doesn't work. And maybe this one if you squint and does
David Edelsohn: It. I think it really creates a barrier to adoption. I think it really makes it
David Edelsohn: Makes Z look more for it, which I don't think is helpful.
John Mertic: All right.
John Mertic: Fair. Fair. Always, always fair points I'm
John Mertic: I'm happy to connect you into that discussion.
John Mertic: You know, just so you can if you want to add context.
David Edelsohn: I think I mean I'll just say me and I know we've got talked about the OH when P money before and I mean it's great work with, you know, the
David Edelsohn: The scholarship and stuff. And that i i'm hoping to get some more money for bounties as well and
David Edelsohn: You know, we're trying to find a way of talking with an IU a day or two ago about how to coordinate all of this because I think
David Edelsohn: That as much as we can. I mean, it's good to find out where the gaps are I think that the goal should be finding the gaps and fixing them not a goal of this is to present the customers what doesn't work.
David Edelsohn: It's I really think that the most, one of the most important things that we could do. And I mean, people get again disagree.
19178564493: As we're talking to before you
David Edelsohn: Can tell me to shut up that I'd be
David Edelsohn: Too much of a jerk to that, you know, what we really want is just
David Edelsohn: Having
David Edelsohn: All of this basic part of the ecosystem works. If you do, you know, DNS install or apt get or whatever, it's just they're just installs it
19178564493: Just works.
David Edelsohn: Maybe it up perfectly knows optimize a blah blah blah but
19178564493: You know all the stuff just
David Edelsohn: Is at your fingertips and that
19178564493: Linux on Z looks just like Linux and
David Edelsohn: Hopefully Z CSS is CX
David Edelsohn: You know the container stuff on God. It looks just like Linux. In other words,
For tonight.
Joe Devlin: If if pseudo app to get doesn't get you what you want only 1% of the Linux community can get through to you know your favorite installer not work.
Rick Troth: Is a very communal to get
Joe Devlin: Doesn't have to get
Joe Devlin: Yeah.
Joe Devlin: I'm in. I'm in Ubuntu you there.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, it's, it's clear because if you if you were Red Hat Guy.
Rick Troth: Who have red hat is never heard of them before, it would be pseudo yum install
Rick Troth: Yeah, whatever. But I'm just saying is that
Joe Devlin: Very few people know how to deal with when that fail right
19178564493: So I wanted to divert the message.
David Edelsohn: That, you know, I think it's good. I think that
David Edelsohn: Because I think we were there was a similar activity.
David Edelsohn: On
David Edelsohn: Our and I made the same
19178564493: Statement to them is that
David Edelsohn: You know, I understand the effort to be helpful to be do transparent.
19178564493: Communicate to people. But I think that
David Edelsohn: Really the goal of open for a project, all of the store, or at least
19178564493: Linux and see Linux when
19178564493: Everything should be
David Edelsohn: How to close those gaps. If we discover them.
19178564493: You know,
David Edelsohn: Use one of these resources or another and then figuring out how
David Edelsohn: We want to
David Edelsohn: I mean, I suppose, prioritize but
David Edelsohn: Divide and conquer. I'm like these various
19178564493: People, the space, but just
19178564493: Fix it so that
David Edelsohn: You don't have, as you said, either a customer doing this or you don't.
19178564493: Have
David Edelsohn: A salesperson saying oh
David Edelsohn: Let me look it up on the list. And let me look up the tool, you know,
David Edelsohn: We shouldn't we shouldn't need at least an external
David Edelsohn: Public tool of saying this.
David Edelsohn: Is what doesn't work.
David Edelsohn: It's also not there.
John Mertic: No, no, no, it's I think it's I think it's great feedback.
John Mertic: And
Yeah.
John Mertic: I mean, I'm happy, I'm happy to make any connections into the discussion that's happening.
John Mertic: Right now on that topic.
John Mertic: If David, if you're interested. I don't know where I think
John Mertic: Joe Devlin. I heard you speak up as well. I'm happy to
John Mertic: You know, make any of those connections.
John Mertic: Into their if you're if you're interested in, you know, just sort of understanding where they're coming from and sharing some of your concerns.
Joe Devlin: That I think all of it goes just as strongly for logging into us in in do I do, is that if it, if it doesn't work like Linux.
Joe Devlin: 99.999% of the way people would walk away.
Yep.
19178564493: Right. And so, you know, guys.
19178564493: Guys, this is land, you know, one of the things I having been doing this since its inception.
19178564493: And like 1999, you know, Linux, we always were saying Linux and Linux and Linux. But the problem that we always have is that
19178564493: You know, people still kind of, there are still people out there and that as much as he has gotten a lot better since then. But since though, but there's still some out there. And I think some of it is
19178564493: Purposely done to make the Linux on the mainframe look different and the Linux and the other worlds, you know, the other platforms and it's not, it's, it's, we all know that it's that
19178564493: The these is BS and open source software builders creators.
19178564493: There, when they move their stuff over there to their chagrin and stuff works right away. The next thing they always have to worry about is, okay, if I'm going to make my stuff available there. How do I
19178564493: You know, provide you know support it and test it properly, and so on, because a lot of them don't have their own
19178564493: mainframes nor can they afford to buy one or or they don't know how to you know get get in touch with one and so i which is a lot of the reason why you know
19178564493: We opened the fires. For this very reason, but we did it for a few of our customers and they were surprised.
19178564493: And and then, you know, you go back to the vendors and and you know the vendors, say, well, we'd love to or sometimes. No way. Jose, or whatever. But you know, it's always the QA and testing part later on. Yeah, I agree. And there's like
19178564493: Travis CI for
David Edelsohn: The main Travis CI for us 390 X Linux.
David Edelsohn: Has been incredibly
David Edelsohn: Powerful probably helped it'll just
19178564493: Take
David Edelsohn: Two seconds don't want more.
David Edelsohn: 30 seconds.
David Edelsohn: Anecdotes and just half
David Edelsohn: Past two days where I was contacted
19178564493: Through GitHub.
David Edelsohn: By somebody from the
David Edelsohn: Rocks dB.
19178564493: Team, which is
19178564493: An alternative to read us
David Edelsohn: And they said,
David Edelsohn: We've got this
David Edelsohn: Patch for somebody
David Edelsohn: Contributed for
David Edelsohn: Rocks DVD ported
19178564493: To S3 90 x
David Edelsohn: And we're already running a day.
David Edelsohn: Travis.
19178564493: And we need to have
David Edelsohn: How do we get access to a system to do some debugging. And I pointed them to Linux one
David Edelsohn: Community clouds.
David Edelsohn: Talk to me about this as well. She knows about it and you ask those curious why did they part three of this has been happening since I guess December, January, right.
David Edelsohn: And I asked the guy.
19178564493: Privately
David Edelsohn: And he said, Oh, well, we now had access to the Travis.
19178564493: S3 90 system we
David Edelsohn: Decided to port it
David Edelsohn: So I mean literally just giving them access to a system.
David Edelsohn: I don't know if the guy is actually part of the
David Edelsohn: Rocks dB of he's not part of
David Edelsohn: Main Facebook team, but he's prayer that community or just externally was like it was there and I decided to port it
David Edelsohn: Yell at, you know, it's just one anecdote.
David Edelsohn: But that was
David Edelsohn: The motivation.
David Edelsohn: It wasn't a matter of, you know, I'm a customer, I need this, you know,
19178564493: Like
David Edelsohn: It was there.
David Edelsohn: We could test it now. So we just decided to add that as another supported platform period.
19178564493: See, you see a lot. It's, it's, it's, I feel so bad when I hear that because how many more out there like that, you know,
19178564493: It really worries me because it's uncalled for, in this day, especially with the Linux one community cloud available to everybody, anytime you want to use it 24 seven for our 20 days are plenty of time for some of these places to
19178564493: Do something just like that and and they're not especially as
19178564493: You know, a lot of vendors every vendors different, but most of them are pretty cool, you know, once you get what they see in a while, really neat, you know,
19178564493: So I know and that's kind of what I look at our missions, one of our key points of our mission here at the open mainframe graduates is why I really like being part of it.
19178564493: Is it allows me to continue doing the work. I started a long time ago and continue my passion and do what I gotta do, you know, get out of my way. If you don't want to help. Just get out of my way. I'll figure it out.
19178564493: Thank you very much.
19178564493: Right, right, right. So the main thing I
David Edelsohn: Mean for, I don't know whether it's john or Ilana who's to do it. But I think the main thing is
19178564493: With
David Edelsohn: As we were discussing earlier.
David Edelsohn: These internal projects, whether
David Edelsohn: It's, you know, and you and Cindy.
David Edelsohn: Leaves team and hopefully the bounty money that I have in the bounty money that we allocated from oh MP. I think it's 50,000 a couple years ago and never spend Vegas still on the books somewhere.
David Edelsohn: You know, plus the work that we're doing with
David Edelsohn: The op students. I mean, just trying to figure out, you know how to divide and conquer this you know who to assign different parts to I mean not not assigned time doing it. But who can
19178564493: Work on these different pieces and just
David Edelsohn: Doing a full court press
David Edelsohn: You know, let's just get all this ecosystem covered and not
David Edelsohn: You know, not prioritize global prioritization is just like, who wants to do what you know, just take something
19178564493: And then try not to duplicate effort and let's just get
David Edelsohn: It over with.
David Edelsohn: And so, you know, I might have
19178564493: Yeah, and my humble opinion, I think we're doing a lot of that. Can we do better. Absolutely. And we're going to and
19178564493: talks like this every once in a while, open among ourselves. We got events. We got to get our opinions out disable we gotta you know talk things out and so on. And, you know, we just keep going, Man, this. Keep going. Right. Yeah.
John Mertic: Exactly, exactly. And we are we are happy here to facilitate
John Mertic: Whatever needs done
John Mertic: To make that happen, provide sort of, I think that was a little bit. The whole idea of this in the first this project in the first place is let's
John Mertic: Have the entire community working on this versus individual efforts happening all over the place that become disjointed and are just hard to sustain so
John Mertic: You know, if, if there's opportunities there to
John Mertic: Make where these builds are happening.
John Mertic: Get connected
John Mertic: To build infrastructure and I think
John Mertic: Dave, what you're saying a travesty I makes a ton of sense.
John Mertic: And I think
19178564493: I think from what I've
John Mertic: Read of a lot of this effort. It's
John Mertic: Less of something to poke
The holes.
19178564493: Publicly it's
John Mertic: It's more of an opportunity
John Mertic: You know almost for that self reflection to see how we can do better. And, you know, being sort of that drastic so
19178564493: John Hey guys this is land. And I think we're at the airport, I gotta run. I'm at the airport, I gotta run. So everybody. Take care. Thanks for all the great conversation and all your hard dedication and efforts with all this keep the faith. Don't give me
A title.
19178564493: Bye.
John Mertic: Take care everyone
John Mertic: Bye now.
Rick Troth: Bye Bye bye.